# A New History of the Humanities

## Bod, Rens, 1965- author.


#### [Page 1](highlights://05_Bod_2013_Ch6#page=1)

> Valla

the Catholic priest Lorenzo Valla argued in his philological study of the text that the language used in manuscript could not be dated to the 4th century.[20] The language of the text suggests that the manuscript can most likely be dated to the 8th century. Valla believed the forgery to be so obvious that he suspected that the Church knew the document to be inauthentic. Valla further argued that papal usurpation of temporal power had corrupted the church, caused the wars of Italy, and reinforced the "overbearing, barbarous, tyrannical priestly domination."[20]

This was the first instance of modern, scientific diplomatics. Independently of both Cusa and Valla, Reginald Pecocke, Bishop of Chichester (1450–57), reached a similar conclusion. Among the indications that the Donation must be a fake are its language and the fact that, while certain imperial-era formulas are used in the text, some of the Latin in the document could not have been written in the 4th century; anachronistic terms such as "fief" were used. Also, the purported date of the document is inconsistent with the content of the document itself, as it refers both to the fourth consulate of Constantine (315) as well as the consulate of Gallicanus (317).

> Donatio Constantini

forged Roman imperial decree by which the 4th-century emperor Constantine the Great supposedly transferred authority over Rome and the western part of the Roman Empire to the Pope. Composed probably in the 8th century, it was used, especially in the 13th century, in support of claims of political authority by the papacy.

> Initially Valla’s result had little or no effect, but during the
> Reformation it was used by Martin Luther and others as potent
> evidence against the secular power of the Catholic Church.

#### [Page 2](highlights://05_Bod_2013_Ch6#page=2)

> this interplay began in philology with Valla

> many sixteenth- and seventeenth-century ‘natural scien- tists’
> were also philologists, from Galileo and Kepler to Newton.

> Philology was the "rst early modern discipline to show how
> hypotheses and even theories could be brought down on the basis
> of new observations (for instance, newly discovered texts).

> The invention of grammar favoured imperialism and laid the basis
> for com- puter science. The scope of grammars has been
> multifaceted. First and foremost the pedagogic grammars of
> Dionysius Thrax, Donatus, and Sibawayh enabled the spread of,
> respectively, Greek in the Hellenistic world, Latin in the
> post-Roman

#### [Page 3](highlights://05_Bod_2013_Ch6#page=3)

> world, and Arabic in Islamic civilization.

> Panini’s formal system of rules was used nearly 2,500 years
> later as the underlying formalism for higher programming
> languages

> The person who actually established this connection between
> linguistics and computer science was Noam Chomsky, who referred
> to Panini as his spiritual father

> Chomsky’s syntactic de"nition of a language served as the
> pattern for the structure of the whole compiler for ALGOL—the
> "rst higher programming language. Thus, the development of
> modern programming languages was initiated through formal
> linguistic work that laid the foundations of infor- mation
> technology with its many impressive applications. This
> unexpected appli- cation of the study of language is rarely if
> ever mentioned in the historiography of linguistics, while it is
> widely acknowledged in (the history of ) computer science.

#### [Page 5](highlights://05_Bod_2013_Ch6#page=5)

> In line with Kitcher we argue that there are also autonomous
> levels of analysis and understanding in the humanities.
> Obviously the laws of physics also apply to the human brain, and
> therefore also indirectly to the products of that brain. Yet it
> is not the case that we need to consult biology or physics for
> the analysis of a human expression like a literary work or a
> piece of music.

#### [Page 11](highlights://05_Bod_2013_Ch6#page=11)

> Linguists can refer both to Panini, Dionysius Thrax, and
> Sibawayh as their spiritual fathers.


