

#### [Page 1](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=1)

> although the distinction is indeed grounded in fundamental
> differences of approach, it is, like most dichotomies in
> linguistics, over-simple and potentially misleading

#### [Page 2](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=2)

> The starting point for functionalists is the view that language
> is first and foremost an instrument for communication between
> human beings, and that this fact is central in explaining why
> languages are as they are.

> Human language is a system for free expression of thought,
> essentially independent of stimulus control, need-satisfaction
> or instrumental purpose. (Chomsky 1980: 239)

> in this case the popular view is based on very solid
> foundations, in that most of us spend a consid- erable
> proportion of our waking hours using language for the purpose of
> communicating with our fellow human beings.2

> Chomsky (1980: 229–230) attacks the claim that the ‘essential
> purpose’ of language is communication, by pointing to cases of
> language use (such as the language-mediated resolution of a
> problem, an informal conversation of a phatic kind intended only
> to maintain social contact, or talking to an unresponsive
> audience) which, he maintains, must be treated as
> non-communicative if the concept of communication is not to be
> reduced to the point of vacuity.

> The primary aim of natural languages is the establishment of
> inter-human commu- nication; other aims are either secondary or
> derived. (Dik 1986: 21).

> There may well be instances of verbal behavior which are
> non-communicative, but this in no way undermines the fundamental
> functionalist tenet that an understanding of language structure
> requires an understanding of the functions language can serve,
> communication being the primary on

#### [Page 3](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=3)

> the functionalist conception of com- munication is not confined
> to the narrow sense of conveying propositional information, but
> encompasses the whole range of speech events which take place in
> human societies, including the setting up and maintenance of
> social relations, so that an informal conver- sation engaged in
> mainly for the purposes of ‘phatic communion’ is indeed to be
> regarded as communicative.

> even if communication is not the sole (or, we might add, even
> the main) function of language, this would still not invalidate
> the functionalist enterprise, since it is indisputable that
> communication is, at least, one of the functions of language,
> and so we still need to explain how language is organised in
> such a way as to allow this usage.

#### [Page 4](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=4)

> There are also problems with the opposition between language as
> a primary means of communication and language as a tool for
> thought

> the two are not in opposition or conflict:

> communication in itself is an in- alienable aspect of human
> thinking.

> , it must relate that complex of patterns to their use in
> communicative activities.

> For Chomsky, a language is “a set of structural descriptions of
> sentences, where a full structural description determines (in
> particular) the sound and meaning of a linguistic expression”

> ffectively reduces the concept of a language to that of a
> grammar

> Chomsky (1980:217ff.) has argued that the concept of a language
> is too vague and too much influenced by socio-political
> considerations to be of any use in a rigorous linguistics.

> Chomsky dismisses not only ‘a language’ but even ‘language’
> itself as “an ob- scure and I believe ultimately unimportant
> notion”

> n the study of generative grammar “the focus of attention was
> shifted from ‘language’ to ‘gram- mar”’

> nder the Chomskyan view, linguistics is to be concerned only
> with syntax, morphology, phonology and those aspects of
> semantics which can be strictly tied to the structures of
> sentences.

> ‘universal grammar’ (UG)

> Chomsky restricts the object of study for linguistics not only
> to grammar, but to the ideal native speaker’s knowledge of that
> grammar

> (grammatical competence)

> (performance)

> I-language

#### [Page 5](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=5)

> E-language

> The conceptualisation of the grammar in terms of knowledge is
> crucial to Chomskyan theory, and Chomsky makes it clear that he
> is not concerned with knowledge conceived as the practical
> ability of speakers to speak and understand their lan- guage(s),
> but as “a certain state of the mind/brain, a relatively stable
> element in transitory mental states once it is attained”

> At the heart of the debate between formalists and functionalists
> is the question of whether grammars are autonomous with respect
> to factors outside them, or rather are to be ex- plained in
> terms of such external factors.

#### [Page 7](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=7)

> the false assumption that functionalists believe in a direct,
> one-to-one correlation between form and semantics or discourse
> func- tion.

#### [Page 8](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=8)

> Head- Driven Phrase Structure Grammar

> Construction Grammar

> even Chomsky’s own more recent grammars

#### [Page 9](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=9)

> The standard formalist position is that the grammar is indeed
> autonomous (both ar- bitrary and self-contained) with respect to
> external factors.

> But while recognising the value of demonstrating correlations
> between structure and function, he rejects the possibility of
> explaining grammatical structure in functional terms:

> the scope of Chomsky’s Universal Grammar is limited: UG is not
> intended as a com- plete theory of grammar, let alone of
> language

#### [Page 10](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=10)

> any non-simplistic view of the notion “functional explanation”
> will not be com- mitted to the view that linguistic form is a
> direct reflection of extragrammatical principles

> the orga- nization of a natural language is a solution to a
> complex problem, the “solution space” of which is circumscribed
> by a variety of interacting and counteracting functionally
> motivated principles.

> a complex problem: the achievement of inter-human communication.

> a simple isomorphism between structures and functions is not
> always trans- parent in complex, interactive biological systems.
> The existence of some measure of arbitrariness in the
> grammatical code is thus to be expected.

> First, because structures unavoidably have their own inherent
> properties and once created (for some purpose) start to live a
> life of their own

> Second, because language is a functionally complex system
> (communication is a multifaceted activity) and the many
> interacting dimensions are not always mutually compatible in
> terms of the requirements they impose on structure.

> y an ecosystem in biology:

> The interaction of gram- mar with semantic, cognitive,
> pragmatic, developmental, and perceptual systems is no
> different.

#### [Page 11](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=11)

> what is meant by ‘explanation’ in the current context.

#### [Page 12](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=12)

> from a functional point of view it is not surprising that the
> first systematic patterns found in child language acquisition
> are concerned with demand- ing objects, getting people to do
> things, interacting socially with carers, and the expres- sion
> of personal reaction, rather than with the transmission of
> factual information, which emerges considerably later, at the
> age of 21–221⁄2 months

> A second important source of functional pressure on languages is
> the means by which messages are conveyed: that is, primarily the
> vocal-auditory channel, with the written mode as secondary.

> Among those discussed by Dik are ease and economy of
> articulation, and properties related to the degree of
> perceptibility of sounds (e.g. the fact that in 3-vowel systems,
> the vowels usually occupy maximally distinct positions in the
> phonological space).

> Language-Independent Preferred Order of Constituents (LIPOC),
> which states that, other things being equal (which they
> frequently are not – see the discussion of competing motivations
> below), constituents will be ordered in terms of their
> complexity, from least to most complex.

#### [Page 13](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=13)

> It is easier to perceive, process, and store complex information
> when this information is presented in chunks of increasing
> internal complexity.

> The principle of iconicity postulates that in many linguistic
> phenomena some degree of similarity is found between the form
> and content of linguistic expressions (

> reduplication of linguistic material indicates plurality

> constituent order mirrors temporal or psychological order

> even where patterning is not plausibly seen as iconic, but is
> ‘arbitrary’ (see, however, the caveats on arbitrariness
> discussed earlier), it can still aid in language processing.

> the dominant orderings of Subject, Verb and Object (e.g. SVO for
> English,

> provide interpretation strategies for decoding.

> physiological and psychological processing factors

> third important source of functional pressure on lan- guages is
> the socio-cultural context.

> Why, for instance, in English-speaking cultures, might we ask a
> stranger for information using some formula such as I wonder if
> you could pos- sibly tell me ..., and why would this be quite
> inappropriate (and so considered sarcas- tic or ironic) as a way
> of eliciting information from a close relative, for whom a plain
> What ...? question would be sufficient? T

#### [Page 14](highlights://07_Butler_2003%20Ch%201&2#page=14)

> . . . it is rarely the case that a single surface convention
> serves one and only one com- municative function. Rather, most
> aspects of the grammar are governed by several competing aspects
> of the communicative situation (cognitive structures, social
> goals, perception, and production constraints)


