# ON ALTERNATING SOUNDS

### American Anthropologist 1889.A2:47-54

#### [Page 1](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=1)

Published in 1889

> DR. FRANZ BOAS.

From Wikipedia:

In his dissertation research, Boas' methodology included investigating how different intensities of light created different colors when interacting with different types of water;[54] however, he encountered difficulty in being able to objectively perceive slight differences in the color of water, and as a result became intrigued by this problem of perception and its influence on quantitative measurements.[54][60] Boas, due to tone deafness, would later encounter difficulties also in studying tonal languages such as Laguna.[61] Boas had already been interested in Kantian philosophy since taking a course on aesthetics with Kuno Fischer at Heidelberg. These factors led Boas to consider pursuing research in psychophysics, which explores the relationship between the psychological and the physical, after completing his doctorate, but he had no training in psychology.[62][63] Boas did publish six articles on psychophysics during his year of military service (1882–1883), but ultimately he decided to focus on geography, primarily so he could receive sponsorship for his planned Baffin Island expedition.[64]

> we may fail to perceive the peculiar character of each phonetic
> element.

Symptoms of _receptive amusia_, sometimes referred to as "musical deafness" or "tone deafness",[7] include the inability to recognize familiar melodies, the loss of ability to read musical notation, and the inability to detect wrong or out-of tune notes.

Boas himself suffered from amusia!

> Experiments on this subject have generally been made on
> children,asit is compara- tively easy to find words unknown to
> them. Such words are dic- tated, the children try to render them
> by writing, and the misspelled words are studied.

#### [Page 2](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=2)

> The results of these experiments are very satisfactory, notwith-
> standing the unphonetic character of English orthography. They
> show that sounds are not perceived by the hearer in the way in
> which they have been pronounced by the speaker.

Categorical perception!

#### [Page 3](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=3)

> Pairs of parallel horizontal lines, the upper 35 mm. long, the
> lower from 34 to 39 mm. long, were observed, and the judgment
> was formed asto which appeared longest. I t very soon became
> evident that the combination 35,37 mm. assumed the character of
> a standard,

> Then I observed that lines approxi- mately 25 and 35 mm. long
> were generally judged to be 25 and 35 mm. long, while in the
> case of other lines no such preference for certain figures was
> found. There was a bias in favor of the two quantities with
> which I had previously experimented.

“This phenomenon must be clearly distinguished from
the differential threshold of two sensations that adjoin one another in space or time.”

“In other words, the longer the interval the more readily one stimulus is mistaken for another similar one, or the longer the interval the greater the probability that a stimulus considerably differing from the original one is mistaken for the same.”

#### [Page 4](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=4)

> The greater frequency of the judgment “25 mm.” and “35 nun.”
> arises from the fact that I recognized these two lines more
> frequently than others, and that the great similarity of the
> line of 24 mm. to that of 25 mm. induces me to classify it under
> this heading, which is better known to me by practice.

> There may be two causes for his mishearing the spoken word.

> First, the pho- netic elementshe hears are similar to
> otherphonetic elements.

> For- tuitous circumstancesmay make the sensationsomewhatdeviate
> from

“This phenomenon may be expressed psychologically: a new sensation is apperceived
by means of similar sensations that form part of our knowledge.”

#### [Page 5](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=5)

> the average in the direction of another phonetic element, and
> thusit may happen that, instead of being classified under the
> proper head- ing, it is classified under an affiliated one.

> Thus we find the f of f a n frequently classified under the
> somewhat similar th.

My name is often pronounced as “Efam” or “Esan” in Denmark, especially by older people.

> the hearer does not know the mean- ing of the spoken complex of
> sounds, as there is no context, but he knows that they are
> intended to represent a certain word.

> here- fore when he hears the complex of sounds these are at once
> classi- fied under one of the similar words, and this
> involuntary assimila- tion itself may influence the perception
> of the component sounds.

> Far better material than that obtained in schools may be gleaned
> from the field-notes of philologists, who reduce to writing a
> lan- guage which they hear for the first time and of the
> structure of which they have no knowledge whatever.

I love this ability to jump from one domain to another. This cross-disciplinarity is perhaps more difficult today than it was in the 19th century. In these first few pages, Boas moves fluidly between the fields of what we today might call “clinical linguistics”, “acoustic phonetics”, “phonology”, “psycholinguistics”, and “field linguistics”

Operniving Upernivik Uperdnivik

Kikertákdjua Kekertäkdjuak Kekertáktuak

Nertsédluk Neqtsédluk

Kaimut Kaívun

Saúmia Caúmia


Try pronouncing “Kaímut” and then “Kaímun” and see where your tongue ends up for each word. What is the same? What is different?

/t/ is an alveolar plosive, and /n/ is an alveolar nasal.

#### [Page 6](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=6)

> I think, from this evidence, it is clear that all such
> misspellings are due to a wrong apperception, which is due to
> the phonetic sys- tem of our native language. For this reason I
> maintain that there is no such phenomenon as synthetic or
> alternating sounds, and that their occurrence is in no way a
> sign of primitiveness of the speech in which they are said to
> occur ; that alternating sounds are in reality alternating
> apperceptions of one and the same sound.

> A thorough study of all alleged alternating sounds or synthetic
> sounds will show that their existence may be explained by
> alternating apperceptions.

> It is not necessary that the sounds are always apperceived by
> means of one's native language, at least not in the case of
> trained observers. In such cases the first studies of a language
> may form a strong bias for later researches, or the study of
> o!ie language may occasion a bias in the study of the phonology
> of the language taken up imme- diately after.

#### [Page 7](highlights://01_Boas_1889#page=7)

> individuals speakingone of theselanguageswith ''alternat- ing
> sounds"

Boas is alluding to the idea that researchers may think that speakers of the language they are studying switch between different pronounciations, perhaps because of dialect or idiolect when in fact, he argues, it is the researchers themselves who alternate in their perception of the sounds.

> ''alternating appercep- tion."

Boas is here establishing the idea of _cultural relativism_: when attempting to understand another culture, we cannot necessarily rely on categories from our own culture.

For Boas (and later his students), anthropology consists of agents studying other agents, unlike physical sciences in which agents study objects or natural phenomena.


